this is a resource episode of church
history and theology all resource
episodes of church history and theology
are donated to the public domain
introduction and reading by Timothy
Easley translation of the diday by
Alexander Roberts and James
Donaldson the deday or teaching of the
twel Apostles is one of the earliest
known Christian documents dating to the
late 1st or early 2nd centur
serving as a manual for Christian
instruction worship and church practices
it offers an invaluable glimpse into the
life of early Christian communities
covering topics such as ethical
teachings baptism fasting prayer the
Eucharist Church leadership the deday is
a profound reminder of how Faith was
lived out in the earliest days of the
Church Central to its message is a
two-ways theology one leading to life
and the other to death representing the
contrast between righteous and wicked
living for centuries the diday was lost
to history while early church fathers
referenced it the document itself
remained hidden until its rediscovery in
1873 Unearthed and rediscovered in a
library in Constantinople the deday
immediately sparked immense interest
providing Scholars and Christians alike
with a rare firsthand account of early
Christian Life and thought this this
rediscovery was a watershed moment
giving us a window into the spiritual
priorities and practices of one specific
Christian
Community take special note of the
ecclesiastical structure of the church
in this local at the time that is still
honoring the New Testament pattern of a
college of Bishops and deacons in each
local assembly this largely constrains
the time frame of the writing to the
first century or the very earliest parts
of the 2 Century depending on
location pushing the dating of this work
even further back into the first century
there are references to those in the
church still filling the role of New
Testament Prophet as this is one of the
earliest roles to leave after the
apostles this indicates a very ancient
date indeed perhaps even the days of the
final Apostles
lives finally the description of the
Eucharist or communion should be paid
attention to as it is the earliest
description we have outside of the New
Testament Canon no mention of any
concept of sacrifice words of
institution or real presence and any of
its later developments the focus is on
communal unity in the body of Christ as
she remembers the sacrifice of Christ
and looks forward to his
return it's important to approach the
deday as a snapshot of localized
practices rather than a universal
description of the early church the
diversity of worship and governance
across the Christian world at that time
meant that communities adapted to their
unique circumstances
the
deday the Lord's teaching through the TW
Apostles to the
Nations section one way of life way of
death chapter 1 the two ways and the
first
commandment there are two ways one of
life and one of death but a great
difference between the two ways the way
of life then is this first you shall
love God who made you second love your
neighbor as yourself and do not do to
another what you would not want done to
you and of these sayings the teaching is
this bless those who curse you and pray
for your enemies and fast for those who
persecute you for what reward is there
for loving those who love you do not the
Gentiles do the same but love those who
hate you and you shall not have an enemy
abstain from fleshly and worldly lusts
if someone strikes you on the right
cheek turn to him the other also and you
shall be perfect if someone impresses
you for one mile go with him too if
someone takes your cloak give him also
your coat if someone takes from you what
is yours ask it not back for indeed you
are not able give to everyone who asks
you and ask it not back for the father
Wills that it all should be given of our
own blessings
happy is he who gives according to this
commandment for he is Guiltless woe to
him who receives for if one who receives
H who has need he is
Guiltless but he who receives not having
need shall pay the penalty why he
received and for what and coming into
confinement he shall be examined
concerning the things which he has done
and he shall not escape from there until
he pays back the last penny and also
concerning this it has been said let
your alms sweat in your hands until you
know to whom you should
give chapter 2 the second commandment
grave sin
forbidden and the second commandment of
the teaching you shall not commit murder
you shall not commit adultery you shall
not commit pederasty you shall not
commit fornication you shall not steal
you shall not practice magic you shall
not practice witchcraft you shall not
murder a child by abortion nor kill that
which is born you shall not covet the
things of your neighbor you shall not
swear you shall not bear false witness
you shall not speak evil you shall bear
no
grudge you shall not be double-minded
nor double tonged for to be double
tonged is a snare of death your speech
shall not be false nor empty but
fulfilled by deed you shall not be
Covetous nor rapacious nor a hypocrite
nor evil disposed nor haughty you shall
not take evil counsel against your
neighbor you shall not hate any man but
some you shall reprove and concerning
some you shall pray and some you shall
love more than your own
life chapter three other sins
forbidden my child flee from every evil
thing and from every likeness of it be
not prone to anger for anger leads to
murder be neither jealous nor
quarrelsome nor of hot temper for out of
all these murders are endanger are
engendered my child be not a lustful one
for lust leads to
fornication be neither a filthy talker
nor of lofty eye for out of all these
adulteries are engendered my child be
not an observer of omen since it leads
to idolatry be neither an enchanter nor
an astrologer nor a purif fire nor be
willing to look at these things for out
of all these idolatry is engendered my
child be not a liar since a lie leads to
theft be neither money loving nor vain
glorious for out of all these thefts are
engendered my child be not a murmurer
since it leads the way to
blasphemy be neither self-willed nor
evil-minded for out of all these
blasphemies are
engendered rather be meek since as the
meek shall inherit the earth be
longsuffering and pitiful and guess and
gentle and good and always trembling at
The Words which you have heard you shall
not exalt yourself nor give
overconfidence to your soul your soul
shall not be joined with lofty ones but
with just and lowly ones shall it have
its
intercourse except whatever happens to
you is good knowing that apart from God
nothing comes to
pass chapter
four my child remember night and day him
who speaks the word of God to you and
honor him as you do the Lord for
wherever the lordly rule is uttered
there is the Lord and seek out day by
day the faces of the Saints in order
that you may rest upon their words do
not long for division but rather bring
those who contend to peace Judge
righteously and do not respect persons
in reproving for
transgressions you shall not be
undecided whether it whether or not it
shall be be not a stretcher forth of the
hands to receive and a drawer of them
back to give if you have anything
through your hands you shall give ransom
for your sins do not hesitate to give
nor complain when you give for you shall
know who is the good repairer of the
higher do not turn away from him who is
in want rather share all things with
your brother and do not say that they
are your own for if you are partakers in
that which is IM mortal how much more in
things which are
mortal do not remove your hand from your
son or daughter rather teach them the
fear of God from their youth do not
enjoin anything in your bitterness upon
your bond man or your maid servant who
hope in the same God lest ever they
shall fear not God who is over both for
he comes not to call according to the
outward appearance but to them whom the
spirit has
prepared and you bondsmen shall be
subject to your Masters as to a type of
God in both modesty and fear you shall
hate all hypocrisy and everything which
is not pleasing to the Lord do not in
any way forsake the Commandments of the
Lord but keep what you have received
neither adding thereto nor taking away
there from in the church you shall
acknowledge your transgressions and you
shall not come near for your prayer with
an evil conscience this is the way of
life chapter five the way of
death and the way of death is this first
of all it is evil and a cursed murders
adultery lust
fornication thefts idolatries magic Arts
witchcrafts rape false witness hypocrisy
double-heart dness deceit haughtiness
depravity self-will greediness
filthy talking jealousy overconfidence
loftiness
boastfulness persecutors of the good
hating truth loving a lie not knowing a
reward for righteousness not cleaving to
good nor to righteous judgment watching
not for that which is good but for that
which is evil from whom meekness and
endurance or far loving vanities
pursuing Revenge not pitying a poor man
not laboring for The Afflicted not
knowing him who made them murderers of
children destroyers of the handiwork of
God turning away from him who is in want
afflicting him who is distressed
Advocates of the rich Lawless judges of
the poor utter Sinners be delivered
children from all
these chapter six against false teachers
and food offered
Idols see that no one causes you to
error from this way of the teaching
since apart from God it teaches you for
if you are able to Bear the entire yoke
of the Lord you will be perfect but if
you're not able to do this do what you
are able and concerning food bear what
you are able but against that which is
sacrifice to Idols be exceedingly
careful for it is the service of dead
Gods section two instructions regarding
liturgy chapter 7 concerning baptism
M and concerning baptism baptize this
way having first said all these things
baptize into the name of the father and
of the son and of the Holy Spirit In
Living Water but if you have no Living
Water baptize into other water and if
you cannot do so in cold water do so in
warm but if you have neither pour out
water three times upon the head into the
name of the Father the Son and the Holy
Spirit but before the baptism let the
baptizer Fast and the baptized and
whoever else
can but you shall order the baptized to
fast one or two days
before chapter 8 fasting and
prayer but let not your fasts be with
the Hypocrites for they fast on the
second and fifth day of the week rather
fast on the fourth day and the
preparation do not pray like the
Hypocrites but rather as the Lord
commanded in his gospel like this Our
Father who art in heaven Hallowed be thy
name thy kingdom come thy will be done
on Earth as it is in
heaven give us today our daily bread and
forgive us our debt as we also forgive
our debtors bring us not into temptation
but Deliver Us from the evil one for
thine is the power and the glory
forever pray this three times each day
chapter n the
Eucharist now concerning the Eucharist
give thanks this way first concerning
the cup we thank thee Our Father for the
holy Vine of David thy servant which you
made known to us through Jesus thy
servant to thee be the glory
forever and concerning the broken bread
we thank thee Our Father for the life
and knowledge which you made known to us
through Jesus thy servant to thee be the
glory forever even as this broken bread
was scattered over the hills and was
gathered together and became one so let
thy Church be gathered together from the
ends of the Earth into thy kingdom for
thine is the glory and the power through
Jesus Christ
forever but let no one eat or drink of
your Eucharist unless they have been
baptized into the name of the Lord for
concerning this also the Lord has said
give not that which is holy to the dogs
chapter 10 prayer after
communion but after you are filled give
thanks this way we thank thee Holy
Father for thy Holy Name which you did
cause to Tabernacle in our hearts and
for the knowledge and faith and
immortality which you made known to us
through Jesus thy servant to thee be the
glory
forever thou Master Almighty dis create
all all things for thy name's sake you
gave us food and drink to men for
enjoyment that they might give thanks to
thee but to us you D freely give
spiritual food and drink and life
eternal through thy servant before all
things we thank thee that you are Mighty
To Thee be the glory
forever remember Lord thy Church to
deliver it from all evil and to make it
perfect in thy love and gather it from
the Four Winds Sanctified for thy
kingdom which thou
have prepared for it for thine is the
power and the glory forever let Grace
come and let this world pass away hosana
to the god of
David if anyone is Holy let him come if
anyone is not so let him repent
Maranatha
amen but permit the prophets to make
Thanksgiving as much as they
desire section three on Church order and
Leadership chapter 11 concerning
teachers Apostles and
Prophets whosoever therefore comes and
teaches you all these things that have
been said before receive him but if the
teacher himself turns and teaches
another Doctrine to the destruction of
this hear him not but if he teaches so
as to Increase righteousness and the
knowledge of the Lord receive him as the
Lord but concerning the Apostle and the
prophets act according according to the
decree of the Gospel let every Apostle
who comes to you be received as the Lord
but he shall not remain more than one
day or two days if there is a need but
if he remains three days he is a false
prophet and when the Apostle goes away
let him take nothing but bread until he
lodges if he asks for money he is a
false prophet and every Prophet who
speaks in the spirit you shall neither
try nor judge for every sin shall be
forgiven but this sin shall not be
forgiven but not everyone who speaks in
the spirit is a prophet but only if he
holds the ways of the Lord therefore
from their ways shall the F false
prophet and the prophet be known and
every Prophet who orders a meal in the
spirit does not eat it unless he is
indeed a false
prophet and every Prophet who teaches
the truth but does not do what he
teaches is a false prophet and every
Prophet proved true working under the
mystery of the church in the world yet
not teaching others to do what he
himself does shall not be judged among
you for with god he has his judgment for
so did also the ancient prophets but
whoever says in the spirit give me money
or something else you shall not listen
to him but if he tells you to give for
others sake who are in need let no one
judge
him chapter 12 reception of
Christians but receive everyone who
comes in the name of the Lord and prove
and know him afterward for you shall
have understanding right and left if he
who comes is a wayf farer assist him as
far as you are able but he shall not
remain with you more than two or three
days if need be but if he wants to stay
with you and is an artisan let him work
and eat but if he has no trade according
to your understanding see to it that as
a Christian he shall not live with you
idle but if he Wills not to do he is a
Christ Monger watch that you keep away
from such
chapter 13 support of
prophets but every true Prophet who
wants to live among you is worthy of his
support so also a true teacher of is
himself worthy as the Workman of his
support every first fruit therefore of
the products of the wine press and the
threshing floor of oxen and sheep you
shall take and give to the prophets for
they are your high priests but if you
have no profit give it to the poor if
you make a batch of dough take the first
fruit and give according to the
Commandment so also when you open a jar
of wine or of oil take the first fruits
and give it to the prophets and of money
and clothing and every possession take
the first fruit as it may seem good to
you and give according to the
Commandment chapter 14 Christian
Assembly on the Lord's
day but every Lord's Day gather
yourselves together and break bread and
give Thanksgiving after having confessed
your transgressions that your sacrifice
may be pure let no one who is at odds
with his fellow come together with you
until they be reconciled that your
sacrifice may not be profaned for this
is what has been spoken by the Lord in
every place and time offer me a pure
sacrifice for I am a great king says the
Lord and my name is wonderful among the
Nations chapter 15 Bishops and deacons
Christian
reproof appoint therefore for yourselves
Bishops and deacons worthy of the Lord
men Meek and not lovers of money and
truthful and proved for they also render
to you the service of the prophets and
teachers therefore do not despise them
for they are your honored ones together
with the prophets and teachers and
reprove one another not in anger but in
peace as you have it in the gospel but
to anyone who acts a Miss against
another let no one speak nor let him
hear anything from you until he repents
but your prayers and alms and all your
Deeds so do as you have it in the gospel
of Our Lord section four conclusion and
the coming of the
Lord chapter 16 watchfulness and the
coming of the
Lord watch for your life's sake let not
your lamps be quenched nor your loins un
loosed but be ready for you know not the
hour in which our Lord Lord will come
but come together often seeking the
things which are befitting to your souls
for the whole time of your faith will
not profit you if you are not made
perfect in the last time for in the last
days false prophets and corruptors shall
be multiplied and the Sheep shall be
turned into wolves and love shall be
turned into hate for when lawlessness
increases they shall there shall hate
and persecute and betray one another and
then shall appear the world deceiver as
Son of God God and shall do signs and
wonders and the Earth shall be delivered
into his hands and he shall do
iniquitous things which have never yet
come to pass since the beginning then
shall the creation of men come into the
fire of trial and many shall be made to
stumble and Shall Perish but those who
endure in their faith shall be saved
from under the curse itself and then
shall appear the signs of the truth
first the sign of an outspreading of
heaven then the sign of the sound of the
the trumpet and third the resurrection
of the dead yet not of all but as it is
said the Lord shall come and all his
Saints with him then shall the world see
the Lord coming upon the Clouds Of
Heaven end of the diday